---
categories:
  - muster
date: "2023-11-21T00:00:00Z"
meta: null
parent_id: "0"
password: ""
status: publish
tags: null
title: Collaboration
slug: muster
---

Collaboration is one of the most powerful things that anyone can do. In a lot of
media, where there is “good” vs “evil,” a common theme is that the “evil” side
is dictatorial or working largely alone (e.g. Thanos), with one person making
all the calls, while the “good side” (e.g. The Avengers) tend to be
collaborative. The more people that are involved in a collaboration, the more
powerful the outcome can be.

You don’t have to take my word for it.
[Kate Vitasek](https://www.forbes.com/sites/katevitasek/) on Forbes talks about
[how widespread collaboration will make the world a better place](https://www.forbes.com/sites/katevitasek/2022/08/29/widespread-collaboration-will-make-the-world-a-better-place/)
including some excellent examples.

Personally, there are few things that bring me greater joy or a sense of
fulfillment than being involved in something collaborative. It can be as simple
as a tête-à-tête or as complex as a large scale project of some form. I love
watching the efforts of a group of people come together into glorious fruition.
Perhaps that’s why I ended up leading teams, often delivering incredibly
difficult, apparently impossible challenges.

One severe burnout and several adventures later, I am at a place in my life
where I am pondering next steps. Having run my own company for almost two
decades, I have a personal style of working, which makes working in a corporate
environment more challenging for me. I would like to start my own company again,
perhaps on the basis of a product, either of my own, or in partnership with
someone else.

Since I have little to no capital (I put almost all of it into buying a house,
and the rest went into what we’ll call some poor investment choices), I figured
to start with something small. Admittedly, I might run out of money before I get
it completed, but I intend to give it a decent shot.

I believe in and follow Lean methodologies, BDD, TDD, DevOps, and most
importantly on putting people first. In every job before, I have had to make
compromises because the focus was so heavily on commercials. I am taking this
opportunity to put my money where my mouth is and follow the methodologies with
faith that the commercials will work itself out.

For the product itself, I decided to try and build something like
[Axolo](https://axolo.co/). I used Axolo at my previous company and absolutely
loved it. It is a great _collaborative_ tool that really eases the peer review
process. I have only one (but major) complaint about Axolo and that’s the price.
$8 per user per month feels incredibly overpriced, particularly when you
consider that GitHub charges $4 per month and Slack charge $7.25.

Most businesses consider how they can maximise revenue – how to exploit a
marketplace. This is at odds with my people-first philosophy, and I want to turn
it around. No exploitation of the market and no maximising of revenue. I want to
know what you want – well, what my customers (hopefully, including you at some
point) want. I want to consider what a fair fee for the service is – not “what
it’s worth” (I am looking at you pharma companies). At its extreme, could the
cost per seat be purely the running costs + a _reasonable_ markup? Product
development could be funded by an additional revenue stream where the interested
users pay into the features they are interested in – essentially democratising
the roadmap.

I also believe in transparency, so I will also aim to be as transparent about
everything as possible. While I want this to work, with my limited capital, it
is possible that I will run out of money before this starts to make enough money
and I might have to go to plan B and find myself a contract or permanent role.
At that point, it is possible that any updates here will quickly stop.

In that event, I will consider open sourcing whatever I have completed so that
it can be put to good use.

---

On that note, I should probably introduce myself. I am
[Shri](https://www.linkedin.com/in/shriramshrishrikumar/) and I ran kraya, a
digital technology company for 15+ years. I have extensive experience in
leadership and tech, having played a huge range of roles within the digital
sector including CEO, CTO, Technical Architect, Software Engineer, Systems
Engineer, DevOps etc. etc. etc.

As I mentioned at the start, I love collaboration and feel that it’s my
superpower – or at least my favourite power. I would love to hear your thoughts
– please
[ping me a message on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/shriramshrishrikumar/)
and I’ll do my best to respond.
