---
categories:
  - Short Stories
date: "2011-04-27T00:35:20Z"
meta:
  _edit_last: "48492462"
  _elasticsearch_data_sharing_indexed_on: "2024-11-18 14:54:43"
  _publicize_job_id: "5187138003"
  _wp_old_slug: "486"
  oc_commit_id: http://drone-ah.com/2011/04/27/%e2%80%9csleep%e2%80%9d-acacius/1303860922
  oc_metadata: "{ttversion:'1.1',tttags: {}t}"
  original_post_id: "486"
  restapi_import_id: 591d994f7aad5
parent_id: "0"
password: ""
status: publish
tags:
  - short-stories
title: “Sleep” - Acacius
url: /2011/04/27/sleep-acacius/
---

Huh? What the? Where? and as I let my eyes adjust to the lighting and look
around, I just see a note in front of me - it tells me to "Relax..."..

What? Is that all? I mean seriously.. who the hell am I and more importantly?
where the hell am i? The frustration, the rage and the panic was starting to
build up and.. "beep", "beep beep"..

I  turn around to where the sound was coming from and there is a terminal
beeping and flashing away... I get out of the bed and make my way over.

The screen tells to me to press any key... so I do, I press the biggest easiest
key on the keyboard to press and it doesn't do anything.. I try again - nothing!

I can feel the frustration and rage building up again, and then I pay attention
to the keyboard and there it is a key that is marked "any".

You know how everyone imagines that when you die, you entire life flashes before
you... Well, that is nothing compared to what happened at that very moment. I
had memories of what seemed like a million years compressed into a few seconds
get pumped into my brain..

<!--more-->

Typical - of course it is. The trigger had to be something so inane, and of
course there were no clues - where would the fun be in THAT!

Even the frustration and rage was explained, as I opened the top draw of the
desk, took out the pack of cigarettes, lit one up... looked around for a bottle;
and there it is... As it burns down my throat and the smoke destroys my lungs, I
can feel the sense of utter calm overwhelm me.. ah, to experience the bliss that
is this moment and this unique moment... never to be repeated... never to be
outdone.. and there is nothing quite like the first draw...

Alright... back to this fragile reality and I hit the any key to be greeted with
the loud beat reverberating through what feels like each and every single cell
of my body right through to my soul... and I shall leave the trivialities of
whether I have one, whether indeed anyone has one to those who find it a
fascinating realm of study...

I wonder how long I have been asleep and more importantly what the weather is
like outside. I head on over to the lift, hit the button and it opens up. I get
in and the light is flashing at a negative 50. and it goes all the way up to
50.. "Ah, I love symmetry", I think to myself as I push the 50. I'm glad the 50
above ground is still there and it hasn't been decimated in the time that I've
been asleep in here. Perhaps, I've only been asleep for a few days or months -
who knows?

The lift rockets to the top and it opens on to the penthouse suite and it's well
maintained - just the way I like it. I make a mental note to thank whoever has
taken over the maintenance duties.

I head over to the coffee table, pick up the remote and push the button for the
curtains which promptly opens, all the way to reveal the glass walls that is now
looking onto a landscape that is as white as the clouds or a brides gown and oh
so beautiful. My heart skips a beat as I draw on the cigarette.. You know - I
don't care about the reason for being woken - this view is reason enough; and I
have to take a moment to admire the view. I look down on all the landscape, all
the snow, all that white - "is it Christmas?" I wonder.. nah - it can't be -
there would be presents and tree in here if it was..

I glance across to the calendar on the wall and its only November... The 30th,
but nevertheless, only November.

As I wander back to the lift, a thought wandered through my mind that the reason
for me being woken should be investigated. I hit zero in the lift and let that
thought wander along. It waited all these years; it can wait a few more hours.

The lift plummets to the ground floor and once it lets me out, I head to the
garage. It is always such a touch choice as to what I want to take out on such a
beautiful day. As I walk past all the cars and the bikes, my mind reels
nostalgically to the memories in each of them, but only for a moment for I spot
the perfect one for this occasion. The dark horse. yes... on a day of snow, a
day when everything is white, the dark horse is the prefect companion to go out
into the world with.

I walk over. It is jet black with beautiful sleep chrome lines. I hit the button
to open the doors, and as all the others disappear into the ground and the doors
open, the chilly air envelops me and I  don the leathers.

I take one last draw from the cigarette and flick it into the distance. I put on
the helmet and giggle a little, in victory, as the music gets transferred from
the room to my helmet and admire my own technical ingenuity as I get onto the
bike.

As I start it I can feel it purring and I  can't help but smile. I rev the bike
just to hear it purr, to feel it purr. I can feel the cold air caressing me as I
blaze out of the garage and slide on to the road and speed away.

The world hasn't changed much. There are still roads, although there isn't any
traffic - hey, all the more road for me... I accelerate and I watch the speed
climb rapidly past a 100 when the track in my head is interrupted with ringing..
"ring... ring ring... ring.. ring ring.."

I guess it was inevitable... so I hit the answer button and ask.. "what up?"...
