---
categories:
  - Gaming
date: "2011-11-11T02:32:00Z"
meta:
  _edit_last: "48492462"
  _elasticsearch_data_sharing_indexed_on: "2024-11-18 14:54:52"
  _publicize_pending: "1"
  _wp_old_slug: "727"
  oc_commit_id: http://drone-ah.com/2011/11/11/elder-scrolls-v-skyrim-1111/1320978723
  original_post_id: "727"
  restapi_import_id: 591d994f7aad5
parent_id: "0"
password: ""
status: publish
tags:
  - Gaming
  - Fallout 3
  - Games
  - Role-playing video games
  - Skyrim
  - The Elder Scrolls
  - "The Elder Scrolls II: Daggerfall"
  - "The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion"
title: "Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim [1111]"
url: /2011/11/11/elder-scrolls-v-skyrim-1111/
---

I realise that this stretches the concept of a technical blog post but you know
what, it doesn't matter. There are several technical elements that are relevant
but I am not necessarily going to focus on. I am going to do what I do best;
ramble...

I waited till midnight and on the gong (as it were), I clicked install and
instead of it saying that the game was not released yet (and I do wonder why
they make us wait until midnight when we have the stuff to be able to play it
anyway but that is a whole another blog post), it started to install.

I felt an anticipation and an elation that I have not felt in a very long time.
My first foray into the world of Elder Scrolls was daggerfall and this was way
after it was released. I had always thought about a world; a living breathing
world that was built upon simple foundations that could grow to envelop your
imagination.

Elder Scrolls promised to do that and while Daggerfall failed spectacularly to
deliver this, it set an expectation. I for one am glad that Bethesda continued
on and eventually brought us Morrowind which I played for a while and loved but
couldn't quite get the hang of.

<!--more-->

Then there was Oblivion which again, I played for a while but couldn't really
get the hang of. In honesty, it is only in replaying it now over the last few
weeks that I started to get the hang of it. The secret was to not
over-specialise which was the mistake that I originally made. The other mistake
I had made as not to be patient. It is tedious and annoying in the earlier parts
of the game because, as a character, you are just not powerful enough.

At level 20, I was finding the game rewarding. The level itself is largely
irrelevant, it was that I was able to fill the skills gap using other
mechanisms. For example, my securiy skill was atrocious but I managed to acquire
the skeleton key (which also ups your security skill). This helped me make leaps
and bounds of progress through the thieves guilds missions.

Alchemy and getting that up to a 100 pretty much changed the game for me as
well. Having picked the Atronach as the birth sign (No Magika regeneration but
spell absorption at 50), I really struggled at the beginning of the game to keep
my Magika replenished.

After about level 16 or so with Alchemy ramped up, I found that I had more
Magika potions that I could throw a stick at. My intelligence was also up at a
100 at that point and the discovery that there was no benefit in increasing my
willpower (since there was no Magika regeneration to worry about) changed the
focus on levelling up as well.

Along the invisibility spell, Oblivion was suddenly much easier to play. I also
got the hang of regularly swapping between and using the various spells. Major
Heal wounds instead of health potions became a habit particularly since my
Magika restoration usually meant that Magika was still going up after I'd killed
all the enemies around the extra regen was just going to waste.

In short, Oblivion is a complex game and you cannot over-specialise if you want
to be able to succeed. As the prebuild Sorcerer class, I had an unusual
combination of skills to work with including heavy armour and magic.

I expect the biggest complaint that people might have about Skyrim is that it is
a lot simpler. There is no armourer skill component for maintaining your armour
for example. While this was a nice maintenance thing, particularly when you
levelled up on it and you got that feeling of satisfaction, I believe that
Skyrim is going largely in the right direction.

Fallout 3 based on the same Engine did a great job to kick it up a notch from
Oblivion and Skyrim feels like it has really kicked it up a few notches.

The graphics are absolutely stunning ( in fairness, I am seeing it with the the
quality set to ultra high :-] )and the game just flows so much better. The NPC
interactions (in my limited 90 minutes or so gameplay) is practically sublime.

Let me put it this way, stealing from a family made me actually feel guilty. If
a game can make you feel like the characters in it are real and make you feel
guilt like that, then you are definitely doing something right.

The radiant A.I system with the updates coming into Skyrim is also very
impressive. Actualy gameplay experience does seem to give it much a organic and
fluidic feel.

I expect that my feelings might change over the next few days and dozens of
hours of gameplay. However, I would like to finish by saying the Skyrim has so
far failed to disappoint which if you know me, is a rare and high praise.
