---
categories:
  - Gaming
date: "2013-03-25T16:31:01Z"
meta:
  _edit_last: "48492462"
  _elasticsearch_data_sharing_indexed_on: "2024-11-18 14:54:57"
  _publicize_job_id: "5185473565"
  _wp_old_slug: "916"
  oc_commit_id: http://drone-ah.com/2013/03/25/pulling-at-my-heart-strings/1364229065
  original_post_id: "916"
  restapi_import_id: 591d994f7aad5
parent_id: "0"
password: ""
status: publish
tags:
  - short-story
  - creative-writing
  - gaming
  - lemkil
  - skyrim
  - thieves-guild
title: Pulling At My Heart Strings
url: /2013/03/25/pulling-at-my-heart-strings/
---

_This the story of a Wood Elf, he woke up in a cart, his memories fuzzy and
faded, little knowledge of who he was and what he was doing. He wanders the
frozen wastes of Skyrim doing as he feels. Without a clue as to who he was, he
discovers who he is. Finding himself at Riften, he joined the thieves guild. He
also got Mjoll the Lioness to accompany him on his journeys after finding
Grimsever for her. All seemingly through chance._

I found myself in Ivarstead one morning on my way to Whiterun. The walk was
largely dull except for me trying to play hunter. Trying to shoot an arrow into
a moving deer is more difficult than I imagined. Needless to say, little was
achieved more than losing a few arrows.

Walking past the alchemists hut, I snuck in to see if the herbs and grown, ready
for another pruning ;-) but it was not. It re-ignited my curiosity about the
previous owner of the hut but I got distracted by a deer. After losing another
few arrows, I decided to focus on picking some mountain flowers and other
alchemical ingredients.

<!--more-->

Things were dull until I got to Riverwood. I suddenly remembered that I was
supposed to deliver a note from Faendal (the scoundrel) to some girl at the bar.
I didn't like how he wanted me to lie about some guy and as luck would have it,
the guy was at the bar too singing something.

He probably deserves to know what was happening so I told him the truth. Now he
wants me to lie and say that Faendal wrote a stupid letter. Now this was not my
intention. Now I am in a situation where it is obvious that this town has not
one but two lying idiots. I mean - what's wrong with these people - can't they
sort this out themselves? I mean even a old fashioned duel would still better
than this lying about each other.

I headed over to the girl resolving to tell her that both the men in her life
are idiots. I started to tell her that Sven (that was the other guys name now
that I remember) wanted me to lie about Faendal and before I would explain that
Faendal was the same, she shouted some abuse about Sven and told me that I
should probably thank Faendal. Oh wait, the women are crazy too. To each their
own I thought and wandered across to Faendals house.

It was a little late in the night and he was fast asleep. I couldn't be bothered
to wait till morning, so i broke into his house. Considering that he's a lying
bastard and he was soundly sleeping, I robbed him of all valuables - which
honestly was really not that much. I then woke him up and told him the good
news - he seemed happy. The things we do for love... I thought.. For a moment, I
wondered if I had done such silly things in my life... but only for a moment and
jumped off the balcony and ran across to Whiterun.

Running past the honningbrew meadery, I remember that I had kicked the previous
owner out and put somebody else in place for Maven Black Briar (one of the
things I did for the Thieves Guild). I thought to drop him a visit and see how
he was getting on.

He was happy to see me and told me how fortunate he was to go for being
somebodies lackey to a very wealthy man overnight. He did not even offer me a
free mead. I went upstairs and robbed him of all his valuables and I was just
about to head out when I saw that the bar was full of bottles of Black Briar
Mead. Not only are they delicious, they are also worth a fair bit of money, so I
snuck around and shoved them all into my pockets.

I also tried to pickpocket the now wealthy Mallus but he had nothing on him that
I could find...

It was pretty late when I got into town and stumbling into the first tavern, it
turns out they don't have rooms. I then made it across to the town square which
had another tavern. This one did have rent out rooms - thank god.

After ditching all of my extra stuff that I could at the merchants, I headed
back out in the direction of Markarth. I did various things on the way including
killing a bandit leader is some cave and speaking to Kematu which was
enlightening and further eroding faith in people.

Finally, I reached Rorikstead, it seemed like a nice quiet town. I even met
Rorik who seemed like such a nice man to have bought a bunch of land for people
to live off.

It was a nice enough place that I decided to spend a day hanging around and
taking in the scenery and the loveliness of it all. There were even kids running
around playing.

As one of them ran past, I stopped her and talked to her but it didn't quite go
the way I hoped.Â *"Most days, I do all I can to stay away from my sister and my
father. The beating's the same from either one."* she told me. Sure enough her
sister was right behind her and I realised that they were not actually
playing...

This made me very curious and instead of hanging about soaking in the
atmosphere, I followed people around trying to confirm how true this was and it
saddened me a great deal to find out that it was indeed true. As it turns out
Lemkil, their Father had lost his wife to the birth of the twins. A sad thing no
excuse for what his daughters are going through.

I was overcome with a desire to put their father out of his misery. I did not
even have the patience to wait until it was dark. He was working on a farm, I
went up on a hill and hid behind a rock. I took aim and the first arrow hit the
rock and rolled down the hill. I couldn't help but giggle. I then readied
another arrow, aimed a little higher and let it loose. Time slowed as the arrow
left and found its mark.

Erik screamed bloody murder - pointing out it was in cold blood but I was well
hidden and safe. Erik had told me how much he wanted to travel and be an
adventurer. Hey, two birds with one stone eh? ;-)
