---
categories:
- Design
date: "2008-12-12T16:42:37Z"
meta:
  _edit_last: "48492462"
  _elasticsearch_data_sharing_indexed_on: "2024-11-18 14:54:33"
  _publicize_job_id: "5180726383"
  _wp_old_slug: "13"
  original_post_id: "13"
  restapi_import_id: 591d994f7aad5
parent_id: "0"
password: ""
status: publish
tags:
- Black
- Compiz
- Desktop
- E16
- E17
- Enlightenment
- Firefox
- GDM
- GNOME
- Gravatar
- java
- Mac OS X
- Microsoft Windows
- Theme
- Thunderbird
- Window Manager
- WordPress
title: Design
url: /2008/12/12/design/
---

Admitting to being a techie - I have often overlooked design. In fact, I have
often explained to (potential) clients, using the analogy of a ferrari that we
make the engine and everything else work while somebody else makes it look
gorgeous. For me, how something looks was largely irrelevant - as long as it
worked well.

This explains why, for a long time, I used a fairly bland desktop environment.
My desktop itself was just pure black with no wallpaper. Ironically, I would
remove all the icons, so it would be pure black and nothing else.

This should have tipped me off on my own desire for design. I thought my desire
for black stemmed from the "good old" days of DOS when the screen was black and
my love for the linux terminal. As an aside, I used to reconfigure the terminal
windows in X to have a white on black background as well - so much better for
the eyes. In fact, I still don't understand why everyone uses a white background
for terminals and such like. Paper was white because that was easier. There is
really no reason for the screen to be white too...

Now, this was before I bumped into
[Enlightenment](http://www.enlightenment.org/ "Beauty at your fingertips") (at
this time, it was E16) and to put it bluntly, I was captivated. This was
absolutely gorgeous. Fairly unusable since I was used to
[GNOME](http://www.gnome.org/ "The Free Software Desktop Project") and of course
Microsoft Windows. I thoroughly enjoyed this until it became more of a
distraction...

I ended up reconfiguring GNOME to be prettier - in fact, I had the Mac OS X
theme for a while which I enjoyed.

I then dabbled with E17 and it was absolutely gorgeous - E16 paled in
comparison. I ran into a bug where some java applications would jump a few
pixels when changing the decorations. This was a real pain since I was
developing a Java application at the time. I spent an entire day trying to "fix"
this before I realised that it was E17 screwing it up and not my code... :-(

More recently, I thoroughly enjoyed
[Compiz](http://compiz.org/ "A Compositing Window Manager") with the shaky
windows and such like - I just always wished that I could actually throw a
window and watch the momentum carry it that extra distance.

Nevertheless, this bridged the gap enough to E17 to keep me happy for a little
while.

Last week, I dabbled with E17 again to see if the issue with Java was resolved.
To my surprise E17 had changed more or less completely - it was bridging the gap
between a window manager and a full fledged Desktop environment.

However, there was a problem. It looked like I couldn't get it back to its old
glory of absolutely fantastic graphics without some effort in configuration. One
other issue I ran into was that maximising a screen would fill it up across both
my monitors. Another thing I could configure but then, it all seemed like too
much effort.

E17 gives me the feeling that this is where user interfaces will end up - it
automates so many of the things that makes it quicker to do anything. However,
it still lacks some of the "basics".

E17 is a very good example of a UI that tries to conform to what I call the
"[Invisible Interface](/2008/12/12/invisible-interface/ "Invisible Interface")"
which I will be writing about later.

To bring it all back to now, I found it a hassle to go through all the available
themes for WordPress for the Company Blog as well as my own.

I used to take great pleasure in going through dozens or hundreds of themes and
picking ones that I liked but after doing it a few times (for Firefox,
Thunderbird, my phone, GNOME, GDM and my flat), it gets a bit repetitous.

Now, for a wish. A website that pulls in all the different themes for all over
the world for everything. A one-stop-theme shop. Here, I could go through and
pick a general theme that I liked and download it for all the applications, my
phone(s), mp3 players (and of course, taking it to the next level, all the
gadgets at my flat).

That gives my life more uniformity. Perhaps this is something that Designers
could take on... Say Hugo Boss, and design something that even matches your
clothes, shoes, hair - everything.

That way, you could have your own unique branding... and while you are at it
link it into Gravatars and you are also instantly recognisable

Now for the issue of privacy - I think I best leave that for another day.
