---
categories:
- Gaming
date: "2014-06-10T05:13:13Z"
meta:
  _edit_last: "48492462"
  _elasticsearch_data_sharing_indexed_on: "2024-11-18 14:54:59"
  _publicize_job_id: "5185321889"
  _wp_old_slug: "961"
  _wpt_short_url: http://bit.ly/1mA6zl4
  oc_commit_id: http://drone-ah.com/2014/06/10/elder-scrolls-online-the-good-the-bad-the-ugly/1402373596
  oc_metadata: '{ttversion:''1.1'',tttags: {}t}'
  oc_tag_data: ""
  original_post_id: "961"
  restapi_import_id: 591d994f7aad5
parent_id: "0"
password: ""
status: publish
tags: []
title: Elder Scrolls Online - The good, the bad, the ugly
url: /2014/06/10/elder-scrolls-online-the-good-the-bad-the-ugly/
---

I must have played
[TESO](http://elderscrollsonline.com/ "Elder Scrolls Online Main Website") for
at least 200 hours by now. It's not a heck of a lot in the grand scheme of
things - particularly in the world of MMORPG's. This is however, the first MMO
into which I have invested so much time (played WoW and SWToR a fair bit - both
got to around level 40). When Skyrim first came out, I took a week off and
played it more or less solid through the week. Over the years, Skyrim had me
traipse through its landscape for over 150 hours.

While this post will talk about my gripes with the game, it should be noted that
I still love this game and look forward to hundreds more hours of playtime. The
gripes are on paper to get them off my chest and hope that they will be
resolved. Gripes about TESO are not hard to find - the
[eso forums](http://forums.elderscrollsonline.com/categories/EN-general-discussion "ESO Forums")
are rife with complaints and bugs - but that's really besides the point... :-p

TESO was a game I was very much waiting for; breath baited. Took time off work,
got my brother to take time of work and played it in earnest. It is difficult to
put my finger on what was expected from this. In all honesty a multiplayer
version of Skyrim would have been fine for me. It was not the MMO elements that
attracted me but the multiplayer elements.

<!--more-->

If they had merged Skyrim and Borderlands (2), it would be a perfect game - or
so went the thought process. The
[features of Elder Scrolls Online](https://www.playne.com/games/elder-scrolls-online "Features of Elder Scrolls Online")
do seem to be (on paper at least) a good mix of MMO Features and Elder Scrolls
Features.

I don't care about the "bugs" since they seem to be pretty on the ball with
regards to getting them fixed and while there are a ton of them, and they are
annoying - let's be fair - would it be an Elder Scrolls Series **without** more
bugs than a dark and damp cave?

## Forced Single Player - Really?

The first gripe with the game and still by far the largest is this. For an MMO,
there is an awful lot of content that you are forced to play single player. This
makes no sense to me!

When the game was designed / developed, did they not know that this was an MMO?
Why create a story that follows the entire Elder Scrolls series when you are
someone uniquely special? It was such a massive opportunity wasted to create a
story line where you could have an immersive experience accepting all the other
people jumping around the place.

I think it was DC Universe Online that made it so powers were like essences that
were scattered and "creating" a number of superheroes. This makes sense and
maintains the immersion. Most MMO's seem to have this kind of a story - and it
makes a lot of sense. Why would you make an MMO where you are 'the
Vestige/Soulless One' - a unique hero? I mean, you get out of coldharbour and
instantly meet thousands of other Vestiges... :-/ WTH man, you said I was
special!

In TESO, this immersion is regularly and quite badly broken. You are asked to do
some missions and you see other people do the same mission - not a big deal in
itself except when the completion of the mission is supposed to change the
world - and you see someone else finish it - but nothing happens - you still
have to finish it. If the other players were just not displayed, that would have
been better.

Back to the soloing of missions - I can completely understand the need to
instance areas to a group(for bosses perhaps). However, for the main mission and
the missions for the two guilds (fighters and mages), you are forced to solo it.
This makes no sense. If I wanted to do missions on my own - I'd play Skyrim,
Oblivion or Morrowind - or indeed other single player games.

I guess in summary - they seem to have failed in making it an MMO OR a Single
player game. In the main MMO area, there is too much immersion breaking
interaction with other players and where you do want to be able to group, you
are forced to solo.

Another gripe - but its a small one because they are getting fixed are the sheer
number of mission bugs - some of them are hard progress blocking bugs. The team
seems to be working hard on resolving these so this should just be a matter of
time. Unfortunately, it's the early adopters who suffer the most.

## XP - In an Elder Scrolls Game?

Oh the next gripe is about this game being called Elder Scrolls Online but one
of the critical parts of what an Elders Scrolls game should be is only half
implemented. The main reason I started playing the Elder Scrolls games was that
the skills levelled up not
[based on XP](https://www.playne.com/features/gaining-xp "Gaining XP (Feature)")
but on
[how much it was used](http://www.playne.com/features/using-skills "Level Up Using Skills (Feature)").

Sure, Morrowind had some problems in that skills levelled up quicker as you
levelled up since it levelled skills based on **successful** use of a skill and
the better you were at it, the higher chance you had of success.

In my mind, this would be easily solved by changing it to level up based on how
much it was **used** - successfully or not. Of course, this may have other
complications.

In no way, however, does it make sense to level skills based on XP gained. This
at best just breaks immersion - but its just heartbreaking. If I want to get
better at a skill, I should be using it - not just swapping my toolbar and
handing in the missions!

## Class Specific Skills... Yeah?

If we were to pick one word to define the entire Elder Scrolls Series - which
word do you think would be picked? No matter what you think - the word
**Freedom** would be up at the top or very near it... How does class specific
skills fit into that? Each class has three skill lines, and at this point, there
are four classes. This means that that any given point, every character is
missing out on 9 entire skill lines.

It very much feels like they got an MMO expert in to consult and they were told
"There is only one way to do MMOs and that's to follow all the other ones out
there." Well, let's be fair, if we wanted to play a game like the other ones out
there - well, we would just play the other ones out there. The same goes for why
I prefer Skyrim to the plethora of other games.

Shoehorning in the Elder Scrolls system of skill progression and getting XP
seems to have been a "compromise" they struck - but let me tell ya - I don't
like it! The whole idea of skills progressing as you use it works because it
feels "real". "Oh I found a new location and look, I am better at fighting with
swords..." - eh?

Feels like a lazy way of bringing balance to a game and if you ask me - it makes
balancing **more** difficult since you now have to ensure that entire skill
lines are balances instead of just skills

## Finally

Am I going to stop playing TESO? Am I going to recommend not playing it? Hell
no! It is still, in my opinion, the best MMO out there... What breaks my heart
is that it could have been oh so much more. I very much think that they should
have maintained their faith in the product - one which has been massively
successful thus far! I can only hope that they see the light at some point and
open it all up...
