---
layout: post
title: Evil Linux
date: 2008-12-12 14:33:21.000000000 +00:00
type: post
parent_id: "0"
published: true
password: ""
status: publish
categories:
  - Software
tags:
  - DOS
  - Ignorance
  - Linux
  - Microsoft Windows
  - Open Source
  - United States of America
  - USA
meta:
  _edit_last: "48492462"
  restapi_import_id: 591d994f7aad5
  original_post_id: "9"
  _wp_old_slug: "9"
  _publicize_job_id: "5180627147"
  _elasticsearch_data_sharing_indexed_on: "2024-11-18 14:54:33"
permalink: "/2008/12/12/evil-linux/"
---

I received an
[interesting link](http://www.theinquirer.net/inquirer/news/965/1049965/school-teacher-bans-linux "School Teacher Bans Linux")
in my email this morning. The story (which thinks that sauce and source are the
same thing btw)  covers a school in the United States that has banned the use of
Linux because "anything that wasn't Windows was illegal and immoral."

I could only ponder about the sheer stupidity of this teacher and wonder about
the next generation of students brought up under this ignorance.

I grew up with Microsoft, with DOS 3 as my first Operating System and went
through DOS 5, 6, Windows 3.1, 95, NT, 98, & ME.

I also played around with BeOS, and various versions of Mac.

I was then introduced to Linux turned into an open source zealot and wiped out
my Windows installation in anger. Since then, while my primary operating system
is Linux, I still have Windows running on my Laptop and have both Windows &
Linux on my home computer.

I have since worked with Windows 2000, XP, 2003 & Vista. I love what Microsoft
does with these products. They do innovative things, pick up features from other
products that are useful and **try** to simplify things.

My Laptop came pre-installed with Windows and I never went to the effort of
installing Linux and I use my home computer to play games, which (whether I like
it or not) just handles games so much better.

As per the old joke, It is the software engineers job to make software as idiot
proof as possible. It is the job of the universe to create bigger and bigger
idiots. So far the universe is winning.

Linux & Open Source software (in general) takes a different approach to
software. It should be easy to use and manage software but it also expects you
to understand (or at least think about) what you are doing or trying to do.

Microsoft seems to be under the impression that this is not necessary. The user
does not need to know what they are doing - they just need to know what is to
happen. e.g.

Lets take a simple operation - deleting a file. Before Windows 95, this used to
be a simple, difficult to undo operation. Windows 95 brings in the concept of
the Recycle Bin (or Trash), a concept that was available on the Mac platform for
quite some time.

After this point, you no longer delete a file on Windows - you move it to the
Recycle Bin, which will delete them from the disk when the number of files in
there exceeds the set capacity.

Now, from a users perspective, what they are doing is deleting a file - in fact,
thats what the menu item says - Delete. But what happens is completely
different. The file disappears from their folder. What they aimed to do - "make
this file disappear" has happened. However, the file has **not** been deleted.

Windows has effectively lied to the user since it is "smarter". If the user
later discovers that they deleted the wrong file, it can be recovered easier.
However, that is not the point.

Microsoft software, are in general rife with such miscommunications. I find this
fairly insulting and this was one of the main reasons that I started using
Linux.  If you ask it to delete a file - it deletes it. If you want to move
something to recycle bin, it can do that too.

To go back to the original point, the ignorance shown by the teacher in this
school is exactly the kind that Microsoft panders to. Microsoft allows (nay
encourages)  its users to be as "simple" as possible and let Microsoft worry
about the rest.

Don't get me wrong. I think that Microsoft do a fantastic job in making software
accessible and easy to use but it should also help educate it users on what they
are doing and help them think about what they are trying to do. Don't pretend or
try to do their thinking for them. Thats their job.

"Give a _man_ a _fish_; you have fed him for today. _Teach a man to fish_ ; and
you have fed him for a lifetime"
