---
layout: post
title: First Love
date: 2011-06-08 00:13:25.000000000 +01:00
type: post
parent_id: "0"
published: true
password: ""
status: publish
categories:
  - Software
tags:
  - Android Development
  - HTC Desire Smartphone
  - HTC Hero
  - iPhone
  - Linux devices
  - Motorola Atrix
  - Motorola MicroTAC
  - Motorola Mobile Devices
  - Samsung
  - Samsung Galaxy S2
  - Smartphones
meta:
  _edit_last: "48492462"
  oc_commit_id: http://drone-ah.com/2011/06/08/first-love/1307488408
  restapi_import_id: 591d994f7aad5
  original_post_id: "660"
  _wp_old_slug: "660"
  _publicize_job_id: "5181677760"
  _elasticsearch_data_sharing_indexed_on: "2024-11-18 14:54:49"
permalink: "/2011/06/08/first-love/"
---

The first phone I ever got was a Motorola Startac 70. This was back in 98 or so,
a flip phone and I still remember it ever so clearly!

I'm pretty sure my next phone was an A1000, a pretty awesome phone. This was
around the time that Motorola started releasing the razr which I was far from
impressed with. I jumped ship to Sony Erricson and I went through a couple of
those before heading over to the wonderful world of HTC. I wanted a smart phone
to help with work and so on and I got the HTC HD (If I recall) which was a
Windows phone.

While this make me uncomfortable, I was still more comfortable with this than a
blackberry. I couldn't get an iPhone for some reason that I cannot remember.

The phone was pretty laggy and I got pretty sick of it pretty quick. I then got
myself my first android phone - an HTC Hero... Most people didn't like the curvy
bit at the bottom but I didn't care. I was happy to be on the cutting edge. It
was also a bit slow and laggy. but it was android and I loved it. It started a
brand new love affair... Let me tell you more...

<!-- more -->

This phone got rooted and got all forms on interesting things installed on
there. I eventually wanted a phone that was faster and more responsive and opted
for the HTC Desire.

Another phone that I loved and it was quicker... and that was nice. I finally
had a phone that could compete with the iPhone and did a lot of the things that
I wanted it to do. It provided me with the level of flexibility that I wanted.

Unsurprisingly, I rooted that one too and loved it. I wanted the HTC Desire HD
when it came out but I had to wait out contract expiries and a good thing it was
too.

By the time I was able to get a new phone, I was sick of HTC for various
reasons. I had installed a ROM on my phone without HTC Sense and I was surprised
at just how much I just did not miss it.

On doing some research, I also realised that HTC had fallen behind and had no
"superphones" available.

This led me to the Samsung Galaxy S2 and the Motorola Atrix. It was a tough call
for me and for a while, I was seriously considering the S2.

Throwing the question around the office, the Atrix was recommended and without a
second thought as such, I went for it. Motorola deserved another shot and I
loved their high resolution screens.

My mum got the S2 and someone else I know had it too. I had gotten used to other
people having the same phone as me with the Desire, but I love to have something
different. The S2 seemed a little flimsy and I like the more solid feeling from
the Atrix.

The phone arrived today along with a keyboard, mouse, remote control and a dock.
I had a very busy day, so didn't really have a change to play around with the
accessories. I'll tell you what though - I remember why I loved Motorola in the
first place.

I feel sophisticated and techy with the phone. I love the fingerprint scanner.
Its a little laggy and its arguable as to whether its any quicker than punching
in the passcode but that's not relevant. Its bloody cool.

And the screen - the screen in absolutely beautiful. Better than HD.

It also come jam packed with some cool applications like Swype. I used to have
it a long time ago when it could be purchased.

After it was pulled, I switched to SlideIT which I thoroughly enjoyed. Going to
back to Swype though has been beautiful. It just looks and feels much nicer.

There is one complaint in that it still runs Android 2.2. instead of 2.3.
Perhaps I shall learn patience. I am not sure if I will root this one. Hopefully
I don't quite get bored of it as I did with the HTC's.

I like the bunch of additional stuff that comes with the Motorola phone
including the Swype. I'm not convinced that I'll want to give that up.

I'll just wait patiently for the gingerbread upgrade. Until then, I'll just
enjoy the other ways in which the device is awfully sweeeeet!
