---
categories:
- Free Writing
date: "2012-03-11T14:41:00Z"
meta:
  _edit_last: "48492462"
  _elasticsearch_data_sharing_indexed_on: "2024-11-18 14:54:56"
  _last_editor_used_jetpack: block-editor
  _publicize_job_id: "89358790809"
  _wp_old_date: "2014-11-14"
  _wp_old_slug: "883"
  oc_metadata: '{ttversion:''1.1'',tttags: {}t}'
  original_post_id: "883"
  restapi_import_id: 591d994f7aad5
  timeline_notification: "1699972885"
  wordads_ufa: s:wpcom-ufa-v4:1699974189
parent_id: "0"
password: ""
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Li(f)e
type: post
url: /2012/03/11/life/
---

Tis true. Life is a lie. Some people call it maya (yeah - us - as in Indians)
and it is ever so true but it is not really as one thinks.

Everything is as is. Nobody, however, can see. A rose flowered in the middle of
a field and everyone sees something different. Amongst these people, there is
someone who sees me in that rose, and someone who sees you. Somebody sees a rose
they saw when they were a child, perhaps one their lover gave them yesterday,
last week or in another life.

The smell reminds someone of a perfume, of a girl, of an evening, of a dinner
date, The colour reminds someone of blood, of pain, of joy. And yet others see a
rose.

Nobody, however, can see. Not this rose, with its own uniqueness, with its own
joy and bliss and love. It is expressing itself - unlimited. For that which it
wishes to express is limited and can be expressed in its mere existence. The joy
and greater sadness of consciousness, the way we use it anyway, is that
existence is not enough to express ourselves - not safely (for society) anyway.

As I trampled on this rose, I realise that I have no regret, no remorse. The
rose expressed itself. It was happy, in bliss, for to express, to be expressed
is enough, more than enough - in fact, it seems to be what all of existence
yearns for.

<!--more-->

Oh you might say - what about the people who might enjoy the rose. Who enjoys
the rose? People, at best enjoy the memories triggered by the beauty of this
creature. They cannot even see it, then how can they appreciate it?

Memories are dead things - the most dead thing in the world - why? what is the
point in keeping something so that someone may further flog the proverbial dead
horse. They cannot let the memories go. They think the memories are them, define
them, mould them. And it does - it creates a mould around them. Stops them,
restricts them - keeps them within the niche, the rut they have created for
themselves.

I do not understand how someone can live, survive as a mere shadow of how they
are supposed to be. How someone can do that so easily is so far beyond me.
Everyone is drenched in misery - dripping in the rain, with barely a rainbow.
Yearning for, waiting for that rainbow and once the rainbow is there, so afraid
of the sunlight which will wipe out the rainbow.

And of course if someone gets as far as the sunlight, they will then be scared
of the rain next.

It would seem that misery and fear is the greatest joy for people. As an
objective viewer, which I am not, I suspect, this may be an easy observation to
make.

You want to be happy - what's stopping you?

Really? What is stopping you?

If the entire world expressed itself fully and fully, it would disintegrate any
semblance of society and anarchy would ensue. The truth is that people are sick.
Once all the sickness is expressed, and out, in the past, as anything expressed
instantly is. Let go of it, move on and you have utopia.

There is no need for technology, no need for power, no need for structure.
Humans as a group, free group, free of the repressed are beautiful creatures
like the rose and death is no longer feared by one who has lived.

Death is not a fear for one who is living. We are all so dead - just
mechanically following the procedure and process book of life - one step at a
time and hoping that the book didn't lie when it said that it would eventually
bring us all to joy - secretly (perhaps unbeknownst even to themselves) more
importantly, freedom. Not freedom _to_ do something but freedom _from_!
Everything! So that we have a chance, a time, a space to just be ourselves.

I say - why wait? Be YOU. Screw the world!

There is only one rule. Never stop. That which you think is you is a lie. It
will pass. You will find that the things you think you want to do are actually
not the things you actually want to do. They just seem like good ideas from
where you are. It will pass - you will go through it - just pay attention to see
if you still want that. It will change - I promise. Everything does. It will
pass - everything does.

Pay attention. What do you want? What's stopping you? I am not talking about
silly little things. I am talking about expressing yourself. Things that don't
rely on the meagre contribution another human being, or another creature could
make into your life. Why should anyone contribute to your life? How much are you
contributing to your own? and I don't mean surviving. I mean nearly
8,000,000,000 - that's seven BILLION people manage to survive.

Do something different - Be You!
